feat: Add .chezmoiroot to allow source state to be subdir of source dir (#1603)
twpayne/chezmoi: docs/HOWTO.md

---

### Use a subdirectory of your dotfiles repo as the root of the source state

By default, chezmoi uses the root of your dotfiles repo as the root of the
source state. If your source state contains a lot of entries in its root, then

> your dotfiles repo will in turn contain a lot of entries in its root.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
your target folder (usually your home) will in turn be filled with a lot of entries in its root as well.
```

> 

Reviewer: It's probably a good idea to first explain the first solution, which would be to keep the `.chezmoiignore` updated. And also to mention why or where it would be a better idea to use `.chezmoiroot`. E.g.: with `.chezmoiroot`, if you add a new file to the root of the repository, you don't need to remember to manually add it to the `.chezmoiignore`.

Author: Done (in working copy).

You can instead specify that chezmoi should read the source state from a
subdirectory of the source directory instead by creating a file called

> `.chezmoiroot` containing the relative path the source state. This reduces the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`.chezmoiroot` containing the relative path to the source state. This reduces the
```

> number of files in the root of your dotfiles repo and reduces the number of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
number of files in the root of your target folder and reduces the number of
```

```suggestion
number of
```

> files that you need to explicitly exclude with `.chezmoiignore`.

Reviewer: But if you add that paragraph about explaining chezmoignore's approach, this last sentence may not be needed anymore.

Author: Done (in working copy).

For example, if `.chezmoiroot` contains:

```
home
```

Then chezmoi will read the source state from the `home` subdirectory of your
source directory, for example the desired state of `~/.gitconfig` will be read

> from `~/.local/share/chezmoi/home/dot_gitconfig`.

Reviewer: Just to make it even more clear.

```suggestion
from `~/.local/share/chezmoi/home/dot_gitconfig` (instead of `~/.local/share/chezmoi/dot_gitconfig`).
```
